README.md, before:

# CS521-Debunking-Solana

## Project Description:
During this project, we walked over the Solana code, explaining the four most important aspects: <br />
Accounts & State: How Solana Handles Data <br />
Consensus: Tower BFT and Proof of History <br />
Fee Calculation and Rent <br />
Validator Lifecycle & Voting <br /> <br />

We also looked into the possible implementation of ALH (Accounts Lattice Hash) instead of ADH (Accounts Delta Hash) in Solana and its limitations. <br /> <br />
Members:<br />
Vedan Malhotra (vedanm2)<br />
Tanay Pareek (tpareek2)<br />
Nick Messina (messina4)<br />
Aryan Malhotra (aryanm8)<br />

## What we did:
### Section 1: **Trying to set up a Validator Node and funded accounts to transfer SOL**

This section walks through the process of setting up a validator node in Solana. The goal was to create both a validator account and a vote account to participate in the network’s consensus mechanism. Here's what we did:

- Created keys for a validator node on our machine
- Funded the validator account using the Solana faucet.
- Set up a vote account linked to the validator account for voting in the consensus process.
- Transferred SOL from the validator account to another created account for transaction testing.

The related logs for this section are present in the fundAndTransferSOL_logs.pdf file.

**Steps Taken:**
1. **Set up Solana CLI:**  
   Followed the instructions at https://docs.anza.xyz/cli/install to install and configure the Solana CLI on our system.

2. **Created Keys:**  
   Used the following commands to generate key pairs for the validator, vote account, and authorized withdrawer and to set the deafult validator account:
   ```bash
   solana-keygen new -o validator-keypair.json
   solana-keygen new -o vote-account-keypair.json
   solana-keygen new -o authorized-withdrawer-keypair.json
   ```
   ```bash
   solana config set --keypair ./validator-keypair.json
   ```
   
3. **Fund the account:**  
   Ran the following command to fetch the address of our wallet and funded this address by requesting SOL on the testnet using the faucet interface 
   https://faucet.solana.com
   ```bash
   solana address
   ```

4. **Create Vote Account:**  
   Created vote account by running:
   ```bash
   solana create-vote-account -ut \
    --fee-payer ./validator-keypair.json \
    ./vote-account-keypair.json \
    ./validator-keypair.json \
    ./authorized-withdrawer-keypair.json
   ```

5. **Connected to test validator:**  
   This is where we encountered machine limitations as advanced machines were needed to host a server to actually connect with the validator node. So we tried playing with the in-built test validator which can be used for testing. It shows live updates for processed transaction slots.

   Ran it using:
   ```bash
   solana-test-validator
   ```

6. **Transferred SOL:**  
   Opened solana logs to track transfer of SOL by running
   ```bash
   solana logs
   ```
   Then ran the following command to transfer 1 SOL to another account we created using step 2
   ```bash
   solana transfer <address_here> 1 --allow-unfunded-recipient
   ```
   Note: we used the --allow-unfunded-recipient flag because the second account we created to make the transfer was not funded by the faucet.

Commit message:

Added script for solana setup and SOL transfer

README.md, after:

# CS521-Debunking-Solana

## Project Description:
During this project, we walked over the Solana code, explaining the four most important aspects: <br />
Accounts & State: How Solana Handles Data <br />
Consensus: Tower BFT and Proof of History <br />
Fee Calculation and Rent <br />
Validator Lifecycle & Voting <br /> <br />

We also looked into the possible implementation of ALH (Accounts Lattice Hash) instead of ADH (Accounts Delta Hash) in Solana and its limitations. <br /> <br />
Members:<br />
Vedan Malhotra (vedanm2)<br />
Tanay Pareek (tpareek2)<br />
Nick Messina (messina4)<br />
Aryan Malhotra (aryanm8)<br />

## What we did:
### Section 1: **Trying to set up a Validator Node and funded accounts to transfer SOL**

This section walks through the process of setting up a validator node in Solana. The goal was to create both a validator account and a vote account to participate in the network’s consensus mechanism. Here's what we did:

- Created keys for a validator node on our machine
- Funded the validator account using the Solana faucet.
- Set up a vote account linked to the validator account for voting in the consensus process.
- Transferred SOL from the validator account to another created account for transaction testing.

If you want to try it out, check out the transactions folder and run the transfer_SOL.sh script. The related logs for this section are present in the fundAndTransferSOL_logs.pdf file.

**Steps Taken:**
1. **Set up Solana CLI:**  
   Followed the instructions at https://docs.anza.xyz/cli/install to install and configure the Solana CLI on our system.

2. **Created Keys:**  
   Used the following commands to generate key pairs for the validator, vote account, and authorized withdrawer and to set the deafult validator account:
   ```bash
   solana-keygen new -o validator-keypair.json
   solana-keygen new -o vote-account-keypair.json
   solana-keygen new -o authorized-withdrawer-keypair.json
   ```
   ```bash
   solana config set --keypair ./validator-keypair.json
   ```
   
3. **Fund the account:**  
   Used the following command to fund the wallet through the faucet:
   ```bash
   solana airdrop 10
   ```
   However, sometimes this command errors out. In that case, run the following command to fetch the address of the wallet and funded this address by requesting SOL on the testnet using the faucet interface 
   https://faucet.solana.com
   ```bash
   solana address
   ```

4. **Create Vote Account:**  
   Created vote account by running:
   ```bash
   solana create-vote-account -ut \
    --fee-payer ./validator-keypair.json \
    ./vote-account-keypair.json \
    ./validator-keypair.json \
    ./authorized-withdrawer-keypair.json
   ```

5. **Connected to test validator:**  
   This is where we encountered machine limitations as advanced machines were needed to host a server to actually connect with the validator node. So we tried playing with the in-built test validator which can be used for testing. It shows live updates for processed transaction slots.

   Ran it using:
   ```bash
   solana-test-validator
   ```

6. **Transferred SOL:**  
   Opened solana logs to track transfer of SOL by running
   ```bash
   solana logs
   ```
   Then ran the following command to transfer 1 SOL to another account we created using step 2
   ```bash
   solana transfer <address_here> 1 --allow-unfunded-recipient
   ```
   Note: we used the --allow-unfunded-recipient flag because the second account we created to make the transfer was not funded by the faucet.
